I teased in the last video that there are some potential
issues with the shutdown process for Node
and npm.
I want to expand a little bit on that in this lecture
around what we're dealing with inside a container.
It has to do with the fundamental starting
and stopping of processes at the root
of a file system. That's known as the init process.
It's also known as the PID 1 process.
That's the technical term for it because it is technically running
Process Identifier 1.
If you did a ps command, you would see that it was the number 1,
meaning the first one.
In Linux, that means it's got a couple of extra responsibilities
as a process. That is,
it needs to handle zombie processes.
That sounds scary. But really what it means is processes that
don't have a parent. Or maybe something that
was launched by something else,
but then that parent process crashed,
and then the subprocess is left hanging out,
right. That's happened sometimes in a bad situation.
Those are known as zombie processes.
The main,
or root init process there,
the PID 1, it's supposed to clean up,
or reap, those processes,
or kind of take them in, and take hold of them
and deal with them.
And the other big thing it does is pass as process signals to
its subprocesses.
That is important when you want to shut down a process.
So, there are things in the Linux kernel that
are sent, they're called signals,
and they're sent to the processes.
Then if there are subprocesses of a particular
process, it needs to pass those on as well.
So, let's see how we deal
with these two problems. I want to tell you that the Internet,
to a large extent, has this wrong when it comes to
Node. So if you go start researching around about Node
and zombie processes in containers,
you will read everybody telling you that you shouldn't run Node directly
in a container. That's simply not true.
That's maybe a little bit of misunderstanding on their part about the
potential solutions because there are at least three
ways to deal with this problem.
Certain ways have certain negative effects.
So, let's go through those.
The first here is the zombie process.
I just want to tell you that zombie processes are not really an issue
with Node. I've never had this issue
with Node and I've not seen others on the Internet talking about
zombie processes happening in Node,
so let's just not deal
with that or add an extra layer of management in the middle here
if we don't need it, right. So, if we don't have zombie processes,
great. Usually, you're just going to have that one node process
and subprocesses,
if any at all,
that you would have for that node process.
Let's focus on the shutdown which I feel like is
really the core and most important issue
with Node in production when you're going to do rolling updates.
Now we'll get the rolling updates later in the course.
But for now, let's just talk about the different options for
handling shutdown in a container.
This is where I feel like the Internet,
in general, gets this wrong
and they're a little bit confused
around the real core issues we're dealing
with here. If we ignore zombie processes because they're not an issue,
then really the main thing left is shutdown.
Shutdown is really about signals
coming from Docker.
Docker gets those either from telling itself,
you know hey,
I'm going to shut down this container because I'm going to replace it.
Or it might get those signals from the OS.
Maybe a control c at the command line when you're running on your
local machine, you hit control c.
That's also a shutdown process that is sent from
Docker into the container.
Then the kernel itself could maybe tell Docker,
you need to shut down and Docker will make sure that it's shutting down all of its containers
first. These come in three different flavors of signals
from the operating system
and that is Signal Int
or SIGINT, Signal Term,
also called SIGTERM. Then SIGKILL as you can guess,
killing the container.
So, we never want to deal with SIGKILL because that's not really
a healthy state. That is actually the operating system just
literally right now,
immediately killing the container. The container won't even see that signal
because it's not even given a chance to respond.
It's just terminated.
Now the other two, the INT
and TERM, are passed into the container by
Docker. What I see is SIGINT is used when you control
c, and SIGTERM is used when you do a docker container stop,
or maybe a rolling update,
or Kubernetes is doing an update,
something like that. So, those are the two common ones.
Those are really the only two options actually.
You're going to see those two in your app,
and we need to understand them
and handle them properly in Docker.
Because INT and TERM are seen
by the app, the app has a chance to properly shut down.
This is actually pretty common in the real world of Linux even without Docker.
So, if you had a MySQL server,
for example, and you wanted to stop the process,
Linux will send it a SIGTERM
and give some seconds,
you know depending on the init process
and how long it wants to wait,
for MySQL to shut down.
And that's a healthy thing. Usually you want apps to handle their
connections, maybe save the files,
save memory to files. That stuff is going to all happen.
With Node, what we really care about,
usually, is making sure that it cleans up any files
it might be writing or streaming.
And then most importantly,
deal gracefully with any connections because a lot of us are using
Node for web apps. We want to make sure that our clients aren't suddenly terminated
and they lose connection
or any backend processes don't suddenly lose something
midstream. Unfortunately,
npm itself, does not handle these signals
at all. It doesn't do them well
or at all. And so, this is why I kind of rule out npm
for use in production Docker because it just doesn't do anything
gracefully that I can tell.
Node though, Node doesn't by default handle
these signals but you can add code to it,
in your app, that will listen for these signals
and then do whatever you want.
Maybe it cleans up temp files.
Maybe it gracefully shuts down connections.
Maybe it does something that you need just specific for your
app. But it gives you this chance.
It will actually watch, and then capture the signal,
and then it can run the functions you need,
and then give the exit to essentially exit the app
gracefully at the very end.
As a backup plan here, Docker does have a built-in init
process. This is an interesting thing.
It's actually called teeny. If you've taken my Docker Mastery,
you've seen it before.
We've used it in a couple of examples
with Node. This is sort of a backup
or a workaround. So, when you read on the Internet that people are saying use
teeny. Always use teeny or use an init process other
than Node. I don't always agree
with that because if you know what these are doing
and you've handled them in your app
with special code, like I'll show you in a minute,
then you don't have to worry about adding teeny in there.
Again, we don't need to worry about zombie processes really,
and as long as we're properly handling the shutdown,
we don't need yet another process in
the mix just to handle that.